Fixed #35521 -- Allowed overriding BoundField class on fields, forms and renderer. (#19043)
django/django: docs/ref/forms/api.txt

    >>> f["subject"].legend_tag(attrs={"class": "foo"})
    <legend for="id_subject" class="foo required">Subject:</legend>

You may further modify the rendering of form rows by using a

> :ref:`custom BoundField <custom-boundfield>`.

Author: I don't know how to add the double backticks to `BoundField` here. I always get spell checking errors if I try doing it.

Reviewer: Not sure you can 🤔 I'd...

1. Add BoundField to spelling.txt
2. Ask @felixxm if there's a better way 😅

Author: Thanks! I think it should be OK.

Here's `docs/faq/admin.txt`:

```
:meth:`~django.contrib.admin.ModelAdmin.save_model` hook, you can update an
object to reflect the user that edited it. See :ref:`the documentation on
ModelAdmin methods <model-admin-methods>` for an example.
```

Reviewer: > This doesn't seem to be necessary...

Great! If it's not triggering an error, don't add it 👍

        >>> print(bound_form["subject"].value())
        hi

.. _custom-boundfield:

Customizing ``BoundField``
==========================

.. attribute:: Form.bound_field_class

> .. versionadded:: 5.2

Author: I'm not 100% happy with this location for the `.. attribute`, but I do not have a better idea.

Reviewer 2: I have made tweaks to (hopefully) improve the flow of the section and to be better aligned with the exiting sections.

There are multiple ways to use a custom :class:`.BoundField`:

* A project can define a project-wide :class:`.BoundField` class using
  :attr:`.BaseRenderer.bound_field_class` and a custom
  :setting:`FORM_RENDERER`.

* A form can override :attr:`.Form.bound_field_class` or set the
  ``bound_field_class`` argument in the constructor.

* A custom form field can override :attr:`.Field.bound_field_class` or set the
  ``bound_field_class`` argument in the constructor.

* Lastly, a custom form field can override :meth:`.Field.get_bound_field()`
  though any of the previous options is preferred.

You may want to use a custom :class:`.BoundField` if you need to access some
additional information about a form field in a template and using a subclass of

> :class:`~django.forms.Field` isn't sufficient.

Reviewer 3: I was going to suggest that we're losing something by not having this at the top of the section of the docs. However, this is the reference documentation and I don't think that's reasonable. However, it does feel like some of the other new documentation may be better suited for the how to guide section. This is because you're showing what types of things are possible when the `BoundField` is customized.

I'm bringing this up more to see what others think rather than as a blocker to merge.

Reviewer 4: I think it would be okay to merge as is and improve the docs later. Everything is covered, it's a matter of structure now.

Reviewer 3: Sounds good to me!

Reviewer 2: I agree with Adam. The current proposal aligns and flows well into the existing docs. If we want a bigger refactoring of this doc page, we can do so in a future PR (which would be only restricted by the string freeze on release candidate date).

    class GPSCoordinatesField(Field):
        bound_field_class = GPSCoordinatesBoundField

Now you can access the country in a template with
``{{ form.coordinates.country }}``.

You may also want to customize the default form field template rendering. For
example, you can override :meth:`.BoundField.label_tag` to add a custom class::

   class StyledLabelBoundField(BoundField):
       def label_tag(self, contents=None, attrs=None, label_suffix=None, tag=None):
           attrs = attrs or {}
           attrs["class"] = "wide"
           return super().label_tag(contents, attrs, label_suffix, tag)

   class UserForm(forms.Form):
       bound_field_class = StyledLabelBoundField
       name = CharField()

This would update the default form rendering:

.. code-block:: pycon

   >>> f = UserForm()
   >>> print(f["name"].label_tag)
   <label for="id_name" class="wide">Name:</label>

> To add a CSS class to the wrapping HTML element of all fields, a `BoundField` can be 

Author: ```suggestion
To add a CSS class to the wrapping HTML element of all fields, a ``BoundField`` can be 
```

    class GPSCoordinatesField(Field):
        bound_field_class = GPSCoordinatesBoundField

Now you can access the country in a template with
``{{ form.coordinates.country }}``.

You may also want to customize the default form field template rendering. For
example, you can override :meth:`.BoundField.label_tag` to add a custom class::

   class StyledLabelBoundField(BoundField):
       def label_tag(self, contents=None, attrs=None, label_suffix=None, tag=None):
           attrs = attrs or {}
           attrs["class"] = "wide"
           return super().label_tag(contents, attrs, label_suffix, tag)

   class UserForm(forms.Form):
       bound_field_class = StyledLabelBoundField
       name = CharField()

This would update the default form rendering:

.. code-block:: pycon

   >>> f = UserForm()
   >>> print(f["name"].label_tag)
   <label for="id_name" class="wide">Name:</label>

> Another requirement could be that you wanted to add a CSS class to the wrapping
> HTML element of all fields. You could easily achieve this by defining
> additional CSS classes as follows::

Reviewer 3: minor: This feels a bit wordy to me. I wonder if it would be improved by stating something like

```suggestion
To add a CSS class to the wrapping HTML element of all fields, a `BoundField` can be 
overridden to return a different collection of css classes::
```

My reasoning is that some new developers may not know what a "requirement" means because they aren't in a software job. However, the use case of adding a "css class to the wrapping html" element should be common (if someone is reading the docs for that).

Reviewer 4: Agree, also just clearer to use fewer words.

Author: Thanks. I stumbled around formulating this, your version sounds much clearer.

    class WrappedBoundField(BoundField):
        def css_classes(self, extra_classes=None):
            return f"field {super().css_classes(extra_classes)}"

    class UserForm(forms.Form):
        bound_field_class = WrappedBoundField
        name = CharField()

This would update the form rendering as follows:

.. code-block:: pycon

   >>> f = UserForm()
   >>> print(f["name"].as_field_group())

>    <div class="field"><label for="id_name">Name:</label><input type="text" name="name" required id="id_name"></div>

Author: Should it be mentioned that the HTML output is edited by hand to remove whitespace?

Reviewer: Not necessary I'd say.
